One of the biggest benefits you
will take from Power MBA and
I would love it, I would generate
a lot of satisfaction that it
was so, is that you could really
analyze a business model in
depth and if you are able to do
so, I guarantee you will help
you a lot in your professional career.
To better understand the company in
which you are working or your own
company or if you are proposed or are
identified if it is interesting
or not or if you have money
and you want to invest in another
person's company, in a startup
or whatever, it will help
you a lot to make right
decisions.
I also want to tell you that understanding
the business in depth is not something
that you learn from night to morning,
it is not just a matter of learning
theory like what we will learn
today, but it is a matter of
going to mature it, of going
to assimilate and learn with
time, right?
But well, I am convinced that
we will end up getting it because
we will see many cases, for a
long time we will comment
on many things and I think
this type of knowledge and practice
will go quiet.
Well, what we are concerned with today
is the phase of analyzing a business
model and what I propose to you,
what I am going to propose is
a model that is a model created by
me, which are a series of factors
that I consider important when thinking
about a business model.
This framework or this model I do
not intend to be the definitive,
but well, I think it is
enriching, I think that if you start
incorporating this type of
perspectives in your analysis you
will improve a lot, it will improve
a lot your understanding of a
business model, right?
You don't need to remember them
today because we're going to leave
them, right?
So what I propose is that a series
of factors and that the methodology
consists in evaluating them from
0 to 10.
Let's start today, what we'll
see are the factors.
We start and we will relate it in
many cases with Regarding customer
elements, what is important
that you think about what you
look at?
Well, because I believe, as Hugo
Arevalo, president of Hawkers,
will later reinforce us,
that I will share with you
one of the talks we have had,
I think it is very important
to look for business that
is big.
You have to think about the size of the market.
If you're going to a small market,
well, you might have a profitable
business, but it's never going
to be a big business, it's never
going to be a big company, right?
I'll put you, to illustrate
these factors I'll use the example
of your lottery, which is a
mobile app where you can buy
lottery through the app, which
connects with authorized sellers,
because it's a case I know
well because I'm a partner
investor.
The lottery.
The lottery market is huge, the lottery
market is immense, it is a millionaire,
it is the lottery market in
the world, it is a very
big, a very strong strength of
the business model.
and scalability.
Let us go to the second point.
Is the business model scalable?
Well, we've seen it in the previous
class and it's something that depends,
as we've seen, on different factors
and requires a good analysis.
Your lottery is scalable, I will
give you an example again.
Your lottery is very scalable because
the technology that your lottery has
can be used in many countries around
the world, as long as your lottery
is in full international
expansion, which is proof that
the model is scalable.
barriers to entry.
The entrance barriers is an important
concept that you have to understand
very well and we will dedicate
specific classes to the entrance
barriers.
Entrance barriers depend on many
factors within the business
model, so I've drawn it all
out, but when a business has
strong entry barriers it's
a company that's worth a lot
more.
Look, Warren Buffett illustrates
it very well, says one that is
surrounding a castle and he also
says he only invests in
that have that pit and over
it full of sharks, right?
It is very representative of what
is an entry barrier.
The fountain that makes you
protected from your competitors and
that generates greater profitability.
Regarding the value proposal to the
offer of products and services,
well, because there is a very clear
question that is whether we
create value, if we are offering
value, above all it is a very
important question when you face
an innovative business
model, it is the most important.
I think when a business brings
value, when a business solves
a problem that exists, it's very
easy to build a profitable
business model from that,
right?
The focus should be value.
When I first sat down with the CEO
and founder of your lottery and
explained the business model to
me, I understood the value
instantly, that is, it's an
app that lets you buy lotteries
without having to go to the establishment.
It is clear.
From that, as I said, it is very easy
to create a business model
that is profitable, but you
always have to start with
customer value.
An application like Glovo, for
example, that allows you to quickly
request shipments, for example,
from mailings in your own city,
that bring you a package,
etc., in a very simple way.
It brings a lot of value.
You use it twice and you immediately understand
it, right?
And I think, as I said, it
is important to get out of here.
And it is the focal point, the creation of value.
One important concept I would
like you to understand is exchange
costs.
There are business models, or in
particular there are products and services
offers.
There are products that are very easy
to change from supplier.
You are paying the light to
a certain company and tomorrow you
call another, you change it and you
don't realize.
You do it in ten minutes,
just the next month you will get
a letter from another company
that there is no exchange
cost.
However, there are products
and services where the exchange
cost is very high.
And that is a huge strength for
the business model.
If you sell software, for example,
let's go to the case of Account
Plus, to facilitate, I put
examples that we all know.
Software of accounting.
If you have an implemented accounting
software in your company, I won'
t tell you that it's impossible that
you are very complicated because
your employees use it, you are
used to it, your advisor uses it, etc.
So for Plus Account or for
Saje, who is currently the
Plus Account owner, this is
a huge strength.
I have been a strategic consultant
for Saje in particular and have
seen how even customers who were
absolutely dissatisfied do not
change for that exchange cost,
for that lock-in effect we are
talking about.
We go with the flow of income.
There are things that are obvious.
Whether the income is higher,
higher or lower, but I will not
go to the obvious.
I'll go to factors that are more
enriching that I want you to learn.
And you have to start thinking about
this, in the recurrence.
It is very important to recurrent
income in a business model.
Do you remember we were talking about subscription?
The subscription model.
Well, the subscription
model is very beneficial because
it allows you to have a huge recurrence
with customers.
Reduces the risk.
It's easier to anticipate what you'
re going to earn the next year, etc.
Let's look at the recurrence in your
lottery.
Your lottery charges for each
ticket you sell.
It is not a fixed quota.
However, the income is very recurring.
Why is?
Because when a player gets
used to buying a lottery game,
the EuroMillions, for example,
every week, the recurring income
generated by your lottery
is very high.
We must always think of recurrence.
Let's go to the costs.
Now, let's go to the cost structure.
Here sometimes it is necessary to analyze
whether the business model
is generating an absolute disruption
in costs.
If so, it is a fortress,
right?
The case of the super, which we will
analyze in detail with its
founder, is a clear example of how
by innovating in the business
model they can save a lot
in the cost structure in relation
to all their competition.
This is another factor you need
to analyze.
Competitive advantage with
huge cost savings.
Well, if so, it is clear that one
has to put a huge more because
it is a clear strength of the model.
Now let's go to a very important
concept that is sometimes not
so easy to analyze and is the
cash flow.
How is the cash flow of this
business model?
The cash flow of the operations
stage, the operations
are generating cash daily,
a lot of treasury is generated
or the opposite.
That would be the analysis, let's say,
more simple, right?
But it is something very important.
I give you examples.
Haukers is another case that we know well.
One of his keys to success was that
he financed his growth by the huge
margin that they had on glasses.
With every glasses he sold he earned a
very high percentage that he managed
to reinvest in marketing and that made
it grow very quickly.
Is it worth?
The cash flow in this case, I ask
you the customer, right?
And I'll go to another case, in your lottery
case, we'll come back.
In the case of your lottery, cash
flow is not so beneficial.
Why is?
Because, as I said, you generate
a recurring income throughout
the customer's life, but not a hit.
Then the cash flow, you first have
to spend money on capturing
that customer and then recover
it throughout their life.
Do you understand a little about what I want to go?
It is necessary to analyze the, it is necessary
to do an analysis of the cash flow at
this level.
Whether the company is rapidly
generating treasury or not, or it needs
to invest to recover it in the long
term, in the medium term.
A very clear analysis is the margins.
We are talking about a business with
a very high margin or a low margin.
I am clearly not contributing
much.
What I want to say is that the margins
must be seen in conjunction
with another set of factors.
For example, Your lottery has
a very small margin, right?
We are talking about
a billionaire market.
If you go to small-margin business
models, they have to be
more market scale volumes.
On the contrary, if you make
a lot of money with each of the
customers you have, well, because
you can afford to make the market
smaller.
The case of Hawkers is a case where
the margin is very high for each
of the glasses sold and also
its market is huge.
It is a huge fortress.
Well, as you have seen, we have
analyzed a business model from
different perspectives and I don't
pretend you've understood them all
because we've seen many, right?
But as I told you, I'll leave you the
chest so that you work it and so that
if at some point you have to
analyze a business, you remember,
go back and analyze it from these
perspectives because you'll get
it out and you'll get it and
you'll be more able to make better
decisions.